The Enigma machine is a rotor cipher machine used to encrypt and decrypt secret messages. 
Invented by German engineer Arthur Scherbius at the end of World War I, the Enigma machine was 
intensively used by Nazi Germany among other nation states for wartime and government efforts before 
and during World War II. The Enigma mainly consists of a keyboard, a set of rotating discs called rotors, 
stepping components, and electrical wiring with a plugboard among other essentials and accessories. 

(CONTENTS)

Pathways
Rotors
Stepping/Turnover
Reflector
Plugboard
Various types of Enigma machines

(from Wikipedia)

Pathways

The mechanical parts act in such a way as to form a varying electrical circuit. When a key is pressed, a 
circuit is completed with current flowing through the various components in their current configuration 
and ultimately lighting one of the display lamps, indicating the output letter. For example, when encrypting 
a message starting ANX…, the operator would first press the A key, and the Z lamp might light, so Z would 
be the first letter of the ciphertext. The operator would next press N, and then X in the same fashion, 
and so on.

Rotors

The rotors (alternatively wheels or drums, Walzen in German) formed the heart of an Enigma machine. Each 
rotor was a disc approximately 10 cm (3.9 in) in diameter made from hard rubber or bakelite with brass 
spring-loaded pins on one face arranged in a circle; on the other side are a corresponding number of circular 
electrical contacts. The pins and contacts represent the alphabet — typically the 26 letters A–Z (this will 
be assumed for the rest of this description). When the rotors were mounted side-by-side on the spindle, the 
pins of one rotor rest against the contacts of the neighbouring rotor, forming an electrical connection. 
Inside the body of the rotor, 26 wires connected each pin on one side to a contact on the other in a complex 
pattern.

Stepping/Turnover

To avoid merely implementing a simple (and easily breakable) substitution cipher, every key press caused 
one or more rotors to step by one twenty-sixth of a full rotation, before the electrical connections were made.

The advancement of a rotor other than the left-hand one was called a turnover by the cryptanalysts at 
Bletchley Park. This was achieved by a ratchet and pawl mechanism. Each rotor had a ratchet with 26 teeth and 
every time a key was pressed, the set of spring-loaded pawls moved forward in unison, trying to engage with 
a ratchet. The alphabet ring of the rotor to the right normally prevented this. As this ring rotated with its 
rotor, a notch machined into it would eventually align itself with the pawl,allowing it to engage with the 
ratchet, and advance the rotor on its left. The right-hand pawl, having no rotor and ring to its right, 
stepped its rotor with every key depression.[14] For a single-notch rotor in the right-hand position, the 
middle rotor stepped once for every 26 steps of the right-hand rotor. Similarly for rotors two and three. For 
a two-notch rotor, the rotor to its left would turn over twice for each rotation.

Reflectors

With the exception of the early Enigma models A and B, the last rotor came before a reflector (German: 
Umkehrwalze, meaning reversal rotor), a patented feature distinctive of the Enigma family amongst the various 
rotor machines designed in the period. The reflector connected outputs of the last rotor in pairs, redirecting 
current back through the rotors by a different route. The reflector ensured that Enigma is self-reciprocal: 
conveniently, encryption was the same as decryption. However, the reflector also gave Enigma the property that 
no letter ever encrypted to itself. This was a severe conceptual flaw and a cryptological mistake subsequently 
exploited by codebreakers.

Plugboard

The plugboard (Steckerbrett in German) permitted variable wiring that could be reconfigured by the operator 
(visible on the front panel of Figure 1; some of the patch cords can be seen in the lid). It was introduced on 
German Army versions in 1930, and was soon adopted by the Navy as well. The plugboard contributed a great deal 
to the strength of the machine's encryption: more than an extra rotor would have done. Enigma without a plugboard 
(known as unsteckered Enigma) can be solved relatively straightforwardly using hand methods; these techniques 
are generally defeated by the addition of a plugboard, and Allied cryptanalysts resorted to special machines to 
solve it.

Various Types of Enigma Machines

Enigma machines are not limited to one exact type. Various types have been used and the number of rotors could 
be varied. The naval version of Germany’s Enigma machine have used anywhere from six to eight rotors. There have 
also been duplicates such as the Japanese GREEN machine, and copies based on actual Enigmas that have been 
retrieved.
